# Docs Tools Demo

## Theme checklist

This demo is designed to test the various features of the BeeWare MkDocs Material theme overrides. Please read through and verify that everything listed on this and the following pages is present and functioning as detailed in the description.

## Titlebar

A medium-gray titlebar is on the page. This the theme template has been applied.

## Header icon

The header icon top-left has been rendered. This confirms the template can reference external resources.

## Homepage sidebar icon

The logo icon in the left sidebar has been rendered. The logo should be the width of, and of equal height to, the sidebar. The site title should be rendered below it in slightly larger font than the rest of the sidebar, with the version number below it in smaller font.

This confirms the sidebar will render properly on the target sites.

## Heading font

Headings are rendered in Cutive. This confirms the BeeWare custom CSS theme has been applied.

## Inline code

Inline code is rendered in the same color as the surrounding font. This confirms that the theme has not caused any undesired changes.

This is text with `inline code` here and `inline code` here.

## Tabbed content code

Code is in a contrasting color to the background. Copy button should copy only the commands; the prompt should not be included.

This confirms that the theme has not caused any undesired changes, as well as whether the copy button is working as expected.

/// tab | macOS

``` console
$ git clone https://github.com/beeware/beeware-theme.git
```

///

/// tab | Linux

``` console
$ git clone https://github.com/beeware/beeware-theme.git
```

///

/// tab | Windows

``` doscon
C:\...>git clone https://github.com/beeware/beeware-theme.git
```

///

## Code copy button behavior

The copy button on the following codeblock should result in `from pathlib import Path` being copied to the clipboard.

```python
from pathlib import Path
```

The copy button on the following codeblock should result in `ls beeware-docs-tools` being copied to the clipboard. The shell prompt and the output should not be included.

```console
(venv) $ ls beeware-docs-tools
_build			locales			requirements.dev.txt	tox.ini
docs			pyproject.toml		requirements.docs.txt
LICENSE			README.md		src
```

## Sidebar links

Sidebar links exist, and point to the `beeware-docs-tools` repo. This confirms that the sidebar content has been loaded, and the `project-name` has been set in the MkDocs configuration file, and the version number is computed and added.

## Link colors

This link to [the main BeeWare website](https://beeware.org) should be blue in *both* light mode and dark mode.

The links in the left and right sidebars should also be blue in both modes.

When scrolling down the page, the active header link in the right sidebar should be light blue in dark mode, and darker blue in light mode.

## Translation admonition

The English-language version of this document should show the "Translations are available" admonition below. The French translation should show the "This is a machine translation!" admonition. The German translation should show the "This is a translation!" admonition for human translations.

{% if config.extra.translation_type == "original" %}

/// admonition | Translations are available

If you're not comfortable with English, translations of the Docs Tools are available in [Français](https://beeware-docs-tools.readthedocs.io/fr/latest/) and [Deutsch](https://beeware-docs-tools.readthedocs.io/de/latest/).

///

{% endif %}

{% if config.extra.translation_type == "machine" %}

/// admonition | This is a machine translation!

This version of the tutorial has been generated by machine translation. We know this isn't ideal, but we felt that a bad translation was better than no translation at all.

///

{% endif %}

{% if config.extra.translation_type == "human" %}

/// admonition | This is a translation!

This document is a translation of the English version. The translation has been reviewed by humans, but newer sections may be generated by machine translation, or not translated at all.

///

{% endif %}

## Custom 404 page

Add `nopage` to the end of the URL in your browser to verify the 404 page exists, and includes the text "Brutus can't find what you're looking for". The current 404 page does not always render the images due to an issue with MkDocs.

*MkDocs builds fail with unrecognized internal links, so you need to manually verify this check by modifying the URL in your browser.*

## Next checks

The following link should take you to BeeWare Docs Tools Demo Section One. It is included to verify cross-page linking.

Navigate to [BeeWare Docs Tools Demo Section One](section_one/index.md) for the next checks.
